Monitors the rate of specific hardware interrupts and logs the interrupt sources
Traces process forking events and logs the parent and child process IDs and command names.
Monitors the rate of memory allocations in the kernel and print histogram of the allocation sizes.
Traces process resource limits (e.g., memory, file descriptors) and logs when limits are exceeded.
Traces process signals and logs the signal names and process IDs affected.
Monitors the rate of system call errors (e.g., ENOENT, EACCES) for specific processes
Captures TCP SYN packets and logs the source and destination IP addresses and ports
monitors the rate of system calls made by specific user-space processes and identifies heavily used system calls
Monitors the rate of syscall by second globally
traces socket operations and logs the socket types and process IDs involved.
traces file read and write events and calculates the I/O size distribution for each file.
traces file read and write events and summarizes the Read bytes by process.
tracks the creation and deletion of network namespaces.
Print files opened events by process
Count LLC cache misses by process name
Count page faults events by process
Print entered bash commands system wide and the exit code
Trace directory entry cache (dcache) lookups by process
Trace md flush events with pid and process name
Print CPU scheduler run queue latency as a histogram
Summarizes CPU scheduler run queue length as a histogram
List new thread creation with pid and thread identifies
Display the exit_reason and its statistics of each vm exit in kvm
Trace mount and umount syscalls system-wide and print with pid
Trace bpf jit compile events
Trace block device I/O with PID and latency
Trace btrfs operations system-wide
Trace security capability checks events
Trace compact zone events with PID and latency
Trace and report long atomic critical sections in the kernel
Trace signals issued by the kill() syscall system-wide
Traces kernel mutex lock events and display locks statistics.
Trace System V shared memory syscalls and display the size of the shared memory segment
Summarizes Kernel SLAB/SLUB memory cache allocation rate top
Trace sync() syscall and print the caller pid
Trace TCP round trip time (RTT) and print the sender and receiver IP addresses and ports
Summarize ZFS operation latency distribution as a histogram
Counts swapins by process, to show which process is affected by swapping
traces the kernel function performing active TCP connections(eg, via a connect() syscall; accept() are passive connections).
traces XFS reads, writes, opens, and fsyncs, and summarizes their latency as a power-of-2 histogram.
